---
title: Data Analytics Mini Note
sidebar: auto
sidebarDepth: 2
footer: Copyright © 2018 Yuzhang Huang
---
# Data Analytics by Segment and Heap
## Introduction
If you're building an app or website, you will greatly benefit from tracking data generated by your users. It's the closest thing you'll have to a crystal ball that answers all your questions.

Normally people might write their own custom API to track user data, since it seems simple to build. At first many developers just want to keep track of easy things like number of sign ups.

However, as an application grows, tracking more complicated things like session duration, distinct user id's, etc. can get complicated.

This is where **Segment** comes in. Segment provides a simple-to-use SDK for tracking your data. The beauty of Segment is that after it's integrated you can send your data to other destinations without writing a single new line of code!

Your data can be sent to Heap, MailChimp, Intercom, etc. without adding another SDK.

## Integrate Segment
We are going to cover how to integrate Segment into a website. To do this, we'll use Segment `JavaScript library` called `analytics.js`.

`analytics.js` provides all of the methods we need to send data to any of Segment's supported integrations (like Heap) without having to implement a new API each time.

First install Segment by adding the following code to the header. You can find the code snippet at getpy.com/install-segment
```html
<script type="text/javascript">
    !function(){var analytics=window.a
    analytics.load("YOUR_WRITE_KEY");
    analytics.page();
    }}();
</script>
```
## Segment methods
### `identify` method
```js
analytics.identify('f4ca124298',{
    name: 'Michael Bolton',
    email: 'mbolton@initech.com'
});
```
### `track` method
We can use the method `track` to tell Segment about the actions your users are performing on your webapp. The code below records a `Visited Page` event with attributes `title` and `duration`.
```js
analytics.track('Visited Page',{
    title: 'Home',
    duration: 100.2
});
```

TO BE CONT.